# curriculum


Olga Pombo got a licence in “Philosophy” by the University of Lisbon, a Master in “Modern Philosophy” by the Nova University of Lisbon, a PHD in “Philosophy of Education” and an Aggregation degree in “History and Philosophy of Science” by the University of Lisbon. Professor of Philosophy of Science at the Department of History and Philosophy of Science, Faculty of Sciences of the University of Lisbon (now retired with collaboration agreement), she was president of the Department since its foundation in 2007 up to 2012. She created the “Research Centre for Philosophy of Sciences of the University of Lisbon” (CFCUL) which she directed since its foundation in 2003 until 2017. She coordinated several research projects - "Encyclopedia and Hypertext" (1999-02), "Scientific Culture. Conceptual Migrations and Social Contaminations" (2003-6), “Image in Science and Art” (2007-12), “Universal Logics and Unity of Science” (2008-10), “Abduction and Scientific Discovery” (2010-12), “Knowledge Dynamics in the field of Social Sciences (2012-13), and has participated as associated researcher in several other international projects.  She founded in 2013 the FCT Doctoral Program "Philosophy of Science, Technology, Art and Society" of which she was program director (PI) until 2016 and where she continues to lecture and to supervise several PhD dissertations. 

She authored and edited, both nationally and internationally, numerous publications on Philosophy of Science (Unity of Science, Interdisciplinarity, Epistemology, Scientific Image, Poincaré, Neurath, Bachelard), on Philosophy of Language (Leibniz, Hobbes, Spinoza, Rousseau, Hegel), on Encyclopedism, Hypertex and Philosophy of School and, more recently, on Science and Art whose teaching she has initiated in Portugal. 

She has been invited as visiting professor and/or keynote speaker at institutions such as University of Hannover (Germany), Zentrum für Literaturforshung Berlin (Germany), Institute for Advanced Studies of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Israel), Institut Universitaire Kurt Bösch (Switzerland), Vienna University (Austria), Oxford University (UK), Poznań University (Poland), University of Athens (Greece), São Paulo University (Brazil), Federal University of Latino-American Integration (Brazil), Federal University of Goias (Brazil), Pará University (Brazil), École des Mînes of Paris (France), Pisa University (Italy), University of Florence (Italy), Accademia Vivarium Novum Roma (Italy), Sevilla University (Spain), Universidad de Burgos (Spain), SPSN (Angola), Azores University (PT), University of Oporto (PT), University of Coimbra (PT). 

She is founding member of the “Société de Philosophie des Sciences” (Paris) and of the “Portuguese Society of Logics” (Lisbon) and member of several other scientific societies. She was honoured as Founder of the “Cátedra Leopoldo Zea of Philosophy and Epistemology”, of the Mercosul Advanced Studies Institut of the Federal University of Latin-American Integration (UNILA), Brazil, 2011, selected as one of the 100 women to be part of the book Women in Science edited by Ciência Viva, 2016, she was invited as member of the honour commission of the Portuguese “Reading National Plan” (PNL 2017) and as member of the scientific council of the “Réseau National des Maisons des Sciences de l'Homme” (Paris, 2015-2022). She received the “Honorary membersip of the “International Association for the Study of Controversies” (AISC). 
She was awarded

She founded and was chief-editor of the journal “Kairos. Journal of Philosophy & Science”, edited by CFCUL (2010-2014) and by De Gruyter (2015-2022) and is currently chief-editor of the journal “Aion. Journal of Philosophy and Science”, edited by the University of Kansas, president of the General Assembly Board of the “Portuguese Society of Logics” (SPL) and member of the International Advisory Committee of the “Center for Interdisciplinary Studies” (CEIS20) at the University of Coimbra




